Part 1: Daniella
1. The introduction was complete, in the justification and methods, she left a few things blank.
   1. I.e: “Method of analysis: ?”
1. Daniella wanted to look at the al Ocean Anoxic Event and how it impacted the climate stability and examine whether it had a driving effect on the Cretaceous extinction event.
2. I thought that the hypothesis could use restructuring to make it a little more clear
I do think that it seems novel.
I think her methods of testing her hypothesis should work.
Understanding the driving forces of extinction events, especially those having to do with climate change directly relate to today, socially and scientifically.
4. Several parts were left blank and needed expanding upon. I thought that what she had was at times slightly vague, but other times did a good job of being specific.
5. I said she has to make sure to more thoroughly include information. This was especially true when it came to analyzing data.
6. Citations were good and she had enough for the information she had, however when there is more information on the page, she may need to cite more. 


Part 1: Phil
1. The paper seemed complete and seemed like the effort was there.
2. He wanted to examine the dinosaur fossils to examine the morphological traits that may lead to a better chance of surviving extinction. 
3. This question is a little hard to answer because one problem that he had in his paper is that he never stated a defined hypothesis. I think that this idea is very difficult to test without stating a specific morphological and testing that trait for increased survival. The problem is definitely socially relevant because we are facing potential mass extinction and survival of a mass extinction is applicable now. I also thought that the idea of looking at a trait aiding in the survival a mass extinction as opposed to making a species predisposed to extinction is novel.
4. Again, the large issue that could be fixed is the vague nature of his hypothesis. It was simply stated that he wanted to look at dinosaur fossils to search for morphological traits.
5. My suggestion was to pick a specific morphological trait that some species have and some don’t and see if that trait has raised survival. 
6. There were a lot of citations in his justification section and a couple in his introduction. This seemed sufficient and backed up and scientific claims that he made.


Part 2: Phil
1. One part that Phil wanted more information on is my definition of dominance. I will make sure I define dominance early in my introduction
2. Phil said my hypothesis was relevant. 
3. I need to be more specific in the ecosystems that will be studied and the species used.
4. I thought Phil worked hard to point out the parts of my paper that needed more work or things that simply weren’t clear. It was very helpful.
5. I think the most work going forward needs to be focused on getting more specific and detailed with my methods. I need to have well defined ecosystems.


Part 2: Daniella
1. Daniella did not have any questions about my hypothesis. 
2. She thought that it was relevant. 
3. It was recommended that I would need to pick specific ecosystems in order to be able to perform my analysis.
4. I thought that the review was helpful. She offered some good advice about becoming more specific and gave me some advice about the K-T extinction event. 
5. As suggested by both reviewers, I need to be more specific in my paper, especially in my methods section. This especially relates to the ecosystems that I plan on looking at.