Nathan Loveless
Week 8 Reading
3/13/16
Summary:
        This paper sets out to examine the relationship between the quantity of exposed sedimentary rock with the extinction rates seen in the fossil record. In order to look at this, a model is created to predict extinction rates based on the presence of exposed rock. This paper uses Sepkoski’s unpublished compendium for data on genus occurrence and extinction. Peters and Foote use their own data for the amount of exposed rock over time. This data comes from the number of named exposed formations. When collecting the data for rock formations, twenty five different references were consulted in order to obtain a total of 1,051 total formations. This data was then supplemented by other data from a different compilation. The authors then examined the information from Sepkoski, where they used 30,379 marine genera. The first and last occurrences were used for the range of the genera and this was taken to the stage level. This data was used to calculate a rate of extinction. Finally, using this data, a model of extinction is formed.
        This paper concludes with two explanations for the similarity of the model and the observed data. First, the paper offers the explanation that extinction rates do not actually vary that dramatically, outside of the few mass extinction that are clearly in the fossil record. This explanation says that there are many pseudo-extinctions that surround gaps in the stratigraphic record. The second explanation is that there is a common cause of affecting both the rock availability and the extinction record, such as sea level. The authors then explain that the overall conclusion, that the extinction rate over time is actually much more stable, can change the way that we look at the fossil record. For example, many of the extinctions can now be seen as pseudo-extinctions and the last occurrences are simply lost.
Likes:
        First, I really enjoyed the explanation section of the paper. I liked that the authors offered an alternative explanation, a common cause, alongside the one that they had probably initially set out to prove(the stable extinction rate). This struck me as thorough and also a logical explanation to the question, even if it may seem less likely. I also liked that the conclusion and significance of this paper is clearly stated. The significance of this paper, that we need to dramatically change the way we look at the fossil record as far as extinction rate is concerned, is well explained. Furthermore, there is a great explanation of the way that this new information should be continued to be studied. Not only do the authors say that the additional studies need to happen, but specifically lays out the steps that this should happen, which gives the reader a great concept of where this information can lead. 
Dislikes:
        One thing that I did not like in this paper is the fact that it was not structured in the traditional scientific paper format, with an introduction, methods, results, and discussion section. While this is a simply complaint, I thought it made it a little more difficult to follow the direction and thought process of the paper. As far as the data is concerned, I found the use of named rock formations problemsome. While it is possible that this truly is a useful proxy, it seems to me that there could be confounding variables that would cause rock outcroppings that would not accurately represent the amount of exposed rock. 


Figures:
        Figure 1 first plots number of formations and observed extinction vs time. It also then plots the change in extinction rate vs change in formations with and without lag. All the graphs are clear and display meaningful data. Figure 2 plots the model and observed extinction rate over time as well as plotting the model vs the observed. I thought it was a little difficult to make out the specifics of the line graphs, but the idea that they are very similar lines certainly was displayed. Figure 3 is a bar plot that plots the frequency that we see correlation coefficients of the model and the model with lag. Finally, Table 1 displays the product-moment correlation coefficients in a clear manner.