Nathan Loveless
Ecologic Severity
Week 9 Reading
Summary:
        This reading tackled the question of whether or not different mass extinctions were more significant than others. This looks beyond the level that is traditionally considered, which is the immediate loss of taxonomic diversity. Instead, the study examines the long term effects that mass extinctions have on ecosystems. The data used in this study revolves around a preset system of classification of change of an ecosystem. This system has four levels, with level one being the most severe change: the destruction or creation of an ecosystem, and level four being the least dramatic change: small changes on the community level. Specifically, this study compared two mass extinctions, the Late Ordovician and the Late Devonian. First, when looking at the Late Ordovician extinction, while the original taxonomic loss was extremely high, the ecological changes were not nearly as extreme in reef, pelagic, and benthic environments. This was largely true because even though diversity was lost, the populations were quickly able to rebound and diversity was regained. For this reason, the changes due to this extinction were limited to only the third and fourth levels. 
The Late Devonian mass extinction had second level changes, in addition to third and fourth level changes. These larger changes were due to the fact that there was not nearly the same rebounding in biodiversity after the original loss in taxonomic richness. The explanation that this paper offers is the fact that some species are more important to the overall health of an ecosystem and that the loss of these species can greatly inhibit the recovery of an ecosystem from a mass extinction. In the comparison of the Devonian and Ordovician extinctions, stromatoporoids seem to be a very important species. In the Late Ordovician extinction, the stromatoporoids were able to rebound from the mass extinction and continue to be reef building members of the ecosystem. This provided a rich environment with shelter for other species and therefore, more species were able to recover. However, this was not the case in the Devonian extinction, where stromatoporoids were unable to rebound and the ecosystem dramatically changed due to the lack of reef producing organisms. 
Likes:
        I thought the explanation of the effect that the extinction had on specific taxa in different ecosystems was very clear. It was very clear and even often gave the number of species that were left after the extinction to give the reader a precise idea of the extinction impacted ecosystems. This was significantly more helpful and engaging than simply saying something vague about being negatively impacted by an extinction and then either rebounding or not. Furthermore, I found this paper’s explanation of what they specifically meant when talking about the long term effects of extinction, when looking beyond initial taxonomic loss. This was crucial to the paper, seeing it is what the entire paper revolved around and I thought the description that they gave was clear and detailed, helping the reader understand the paper. This description was the breaking down of the four level system. 
Dislikes:
        While I thought this was a well written paper, I thought that a few things were missing that would have helped provide more detail. First, I thought that the paper needed some sort of statistical analysis to drive home the correlation with the stromatoporoids with the overall recovery of the ecosystems after the extinction. This would have lended credibility to the theory that the author presents about this taxa being the key to a more thorough rebound. Additionally, I wanted to know which case is more consistent through the five mass extinctions: the more complete recovery that was seen after the Late Ordovician extinction or the lack of recovery and the dramatic changes that occurred following the Late Devonian extinction. 
Figures:
        Table  1 was extremely helpful when reading this paper. It was a useful reference whenever the paper talked about the four level system because it saves the reader time because they do not have to search through the text for the description of each level. Figure 1 displays the temporal distribution of Cambrian, Paleozoic, and modern evolutionary faunas. The graph displays environmental position versus time.