Nathan Loveless
Paleobio, Live Dead Reading
2/27/16
Summary:
This reading looked at the accuracy of the fossil record. In order to study something so broad, the first task was to break it down into something more manageable to study. Therefore, the author only looks at the taxa Bivalvia and Brachiopoda. In order to further break down the sample pool, more stipulations were put in place by the author. First, the species had to live within the California Providence. Next, the species had to live at depths 180 meters or shallower. Once the sample pool was established, it resulted in 698 different extant species. The data that this study used was simply whether or not the species was present in the fossil record for those that are currently living in the California Providence. For a study like this one, this simple data is effective and clearly the best way of measuring the effectiveness of the fossil record in this area. This study did rely on the data that was taken by others, specifically Burch’s list of marine mollusks. Next, there are some outliers that are considered where the author throws out a few species due to some extraneous reasons, such as needing taxonomic reform or only being cited once. As far as the fossil record is concerned, the author restricts his samples to those that are around one million years old or younger. 
Finally, once the two sample pools are determined, they are compared. When first looking at the two pools, the author determines that 536 species are in both the fossil record and living today. The fossils that are not alive today are easy accounted for, with 98 extinct fossils and 113 that no longer live in the California Providence. Next, the author must ask, what about the extant species that are not accounted for in the fossil record. The author is quickly able to account for the lack of fossils due to factors such as being very minute or fragile. Furthermore, the author is able to determine that the species that are lacking from the fossil record are fairly unimportant and that the important species are all found in the fossil record. This information is very important to this study because it means that despite the fact that the fossil record may be incomplete, this is easily explained and it is predictable which fossils will not be preserved and the important species will be preserved. Therefore, the overall conclusion of this study shows that the fossil record is remarkably useful and more complete than many had considered.
Likes:
        First, I thought Valentine did a very good job of explaining the pools of species that he used in this study. There are very clear guidelines that are used to determine what species are appropriate for the study. Once these guidelines are used to break down the taxa, the author does not blindly accept these pools but continues to think critically of the species and is able to eliminate some species that would have been detrimental to the data.
        Secondly, I thought that Valentine did a very good job when giving explanations to the species that were not accounted for in the fossil record. He individually examined the species and is able to find strong correlations between the a lack of fossil data and characteristics of the species such as fragility and being small in size. These correlations are significant because they are able to explain some of the weaknesses in the fossil record.
Dislikes:
        My major problem with this study is the fact that Valentine says that the taxa studied, Bivalvia and Brachiopoda, can work as a surrogate for the entire fossil record. However, there is little evidence presented in this study that this is true. In fact, one of the only reasons that these taxas were used was because the author was familiar with them. While I think that it may be true that this data is represented of the entire fossil record, the author needs to provide at least a sliver of evidence that this is true if he wants to make this claim in the general implications section of this paper. 
Tables:
Figure 1 is a map of the locations that had a large implication of this study. It is clear, and gives the reader a good idea what specifically is being talked about when the California Providence is mentioned. Table 1 is a table that displays the families, genera, and species within the classes of  Bivalvia, Brachiopoda, and the total of both. It the further breaks the data down to those present currently and within the fossil record. It also gives the percent that is within both. This is a helpful table that is able to effectively display much of the data that the paper gives in one small area.