Nathan Loveless
Biodiversity Scenarios
2/20/16
Summary:
        This paper set out to create a model for potential scenarios of changes in biodiversity. This is similar to the models that already exist for things such as climate change. This is necessary because the human impact on many different ecosystems is affecting biodiversity in such a fashion that it is now an important global change. This model is created in three relatively simple steps. First, the five largest drivers of change in biodiversity, land use, climate change, nitrogen deposition, biotic exchange, and atmospheric carbon dioxide, are assigned a unit on a 1-5 scale of how significantly a large change in this driver would affect each biome. One way that this determination was made was by increasing and decreasing each driver by 10% to see the effect on the biomes. Once this is done, the study assigns how much they think each driver will increase by the year 2100, once again on a 1-5 scale. Step three uses the data in steps one and two to create graphs that displays the relative effect of each biome of each driver. This is then mapped onto the globe, showing the relative change in each biome for three different scenarios. Scenario one is that the drivers have no interaction with each other and therefore simply add together. Scenario two shows the effect of the drivers if only the largest driver in that biome determines the change in biodiversity. Scenario three is when the drivers are synergistic and therefore multiply together. These scenarios are important because we don’t have enough information to determine which scenario is true of the drivers. The conclusion of this paper is the maps and tables. This is because the overall goal of the paper was to create a model. 
Likes:
        The greatest strength of this paper is the fact that it is relatively innovative. The paper takes a look at a change that is occurring in the world that can have dramatic effect, not only on specific species, but on entire ecosystems and the entire globe. Models having to do with biodiversity are much less common than those on climate change, but are significantly important as well. Specifically, I liked that data used in this paper. The 1-5 unit scale is simplistic, but still manages to be an effective display of information about both the amount that each driver changes a biome, as well as the expected increase in each driver. The fact that the scales are consistent between steps one and two in the methods was very helpful because it created clarity. Furthermore, I enjoyed the explanations in how the data was decided upon by the authors. For example, land use is given a 5 for impact it has on biomes. The author is explains this by that they used the IMAGE model to determine where the effects would be greatest, and that it would have such a dramatic effect because it often leads to extinctions in plants and animals, disrupting the food chain and leading to further extinction. Similar explanation are given for the other drivers and biomes which helps the reader follow the thought process of the author when determining assignments of 1-5. 
Dislikes:
        I thought that one of the biggest strengths, the data, was also one of its biggest weaknesses as a scientific paper. This is because it is largely subjective to the opinion of the author. Even though different models and data are considered when assignments are given to the drivers and biomes, there is not a specific algorithm or equation that gives a unit of measurement and that eliminates bias. The fact that the data only ranges from 1-5 also makes it fairly inexact. An assignment of an number comes with a 20% range. Another weakness is the fact that we don’t fully understand the affects that the drivers have when interacting with each other. The paper does a good job of dealing with this weakness, by having three separate scenarios and by addressing it in the “Uncertainties” section. However, in reality, the interactions likely do not fit perfectly into one of the scenarios and therefore the maps are inherently flawed. These weaknesses are somewhat ingrained in the creation of a model, especially with one that has not been excessively studied, but these are still factors that make the overall result of the paper less meaningful. 
Figures:
        Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4 are all very similar, showing data for each driver in biomes. It does this clearly and neatly. Figures 1 and 2 display the relative biodiversity change caused by each driver in the biomes. I would have liked these graph to be a little larger because it was hard to read and look at the exact change in biodiversity, making it hard to compare across graphs. I really liked the idea behind Figure 3, showing the different biomes on a globe. However, I would have liked it if more distinct colors were used because using three different shades of blue directly next to each other was fairly confusing.