Nathan Loveless
4/24/16
Sakamoto, Benton, and Venditti
Summary:
        The overall goal of this paper is to determine the whether the dinosaurs were flourishing when the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event hit or if they had been in a long term decline before the event hit. While this has been studied before, this paper does this by using phylogeny, which is an approach that hasn’t been used. This is more thorough and has more statistical relevance. Specifically, three dinosaur subclades, Ornithischia, Sauropodomorpha, and Theropoda, are studied individually of one another. This is done by using a phylogenetic generalized linear mixed model. Once this is done, the results are analyzed. The first thing that is noted is that besides Hadrosauriformes and Ceratopsidae, all dinosaur subclades seem to follow the same pattern of speciation dynamics, where extinction rates surpassed the speciation rates well before the K-Pg. 
        The reading then takes a look at some of the specifics of the dinosaur speciation dynamics. For example, the reading talks about the fact that sauropodomorphs were showed the most significant downturn. Another notable detail is that birds underwent the same speciation pattern as the nonavian theropods. After discussing these details, the authors then go on to talk about the causes that may be responsible for the long term decline of dinosaurs. The first explanation discussed is the idea of an ecological limit of speciation. In other words, species that are closely related are often competing for the same niches and this competition is responsible for higher extinction and lower speciation. However, high clade diversity was not proven to be associated with speciation. Next, geological factors are studied as a cause. This is done by using things such as sea-level reconstruction to look at potential geologic barriers. This can lead to reproductive isolation and high speciation. This was found to have a small, positive association with speciation. 
Likes:
One thing that I liked about this paper was the thorough nature of the results and discussion section. I thought it was interesting reading about the specific cases that the authors broke down, about the speciation dynamics of different subclades. For example, I thought that the discussion on birds and nonavian theropods was well done. The fact that they were able to analyze them individually, using separate coefficients, and finding that they did not have unique speciation dynamics, give very credible results. I also thought that the study did a good job of not only studying the dynamics, but trying to find a statistically significant cause of these dynamics. I thought that the theories that they discussed, an ecological limit of speciation, and the geographic barrier due to sea-level, were both very fascinating. Even though neither were found to have a large effect on speciation dynamics, I think that examining these kinds of ideas show how thorough this paper was. 
Dislikes:
One thing that I did not like about this paper is the fact that it seemed to only take a large scale view of the speciation dynamics. In the discussion section the authors do reference a few specific examples, but do not go in depth in other places. The only figure that goes deeper than the phylogenetic tree, which does not have any details. I would have liked to at least see a table with different log odds across more than just the three major clades that the paper addresses throughout. 
Figures:
        Figure 1 shows examples of the different speciation patterns over time. First where the speciation is consistently higher than extinction, one where speciation is lowered to a point where it is even with extinction and finally where extinction surpasses speciation. I think that this is a helpful figure to better understand what we will be looking at later on in this paper. Figure 2 A shows the two different lines that represent the linear and the quadratic models. We were told that the quadratic model, with a downturn in speciation is the one that better fits the model. Figure 2B shows speciation dynamics over time of the three main clades of dinosaurs. This is an effective figure because it shows that each of the three clades has a downturn in speciation. Figure 3 A is a phylogenetic tree of dinosaurs. The changing color of the tree shows different rates of speciation. This is an effective figure because it shows that the speciation dynamic dips under well before the mass extinction. FIgure 3 B is a close up of the point at which the three clades become negative in terms of speciation dynamics.